Document the OpenTelemetry Tracer object in the context of the serverless runtimes (#13495)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/03-tutorials/00-serverless/svls-12-use-opentelemetry-client.md

---
title: Use the OpenTelemetry standard
---

This tutorial shows how to use the build-in OpenTelemetry tracer object to send custom trace data to the Jaeger service.

Kyma Functions are instrumented to handle trace headers. This means that every time you call your Function, the executed logic is traceable using a dedicated span visible in the Jaeger service (i.e. start time and duration).
Additionally, you can extend the default trace context and create your own custom spans whenever you feel it is helpful (i.e. when calling a remote service in your distributed application) or add additional information to the tracing context by introducing events and tags. This tutorial shows you how to do it using tracer client that is available as part of the [event](../../05-technical-reference/svls-08-function-specification.md#event-object) object.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have these tools installed:

- Kyma installed on a cluster

## Steps

Follows these steps:

> 1. [Create inline Function](./svls-01-create-inline-function.md) with the following body:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Create an inline Function](./svls-01-create-inline-function.md) with the following body:
```

   <div tabs name="code" group="functions-code">
   <details>
   <summary label="node.js">
   Node.js
   </summary>

      ```javascript
      module.exports = {
         main: function (event, context) {
            span = event.tracer.startSpan('foo');
            span.addEvent('bar');
            span.end();
            
            return "hello OpenTelemetry"
         }
      }
      ```

   </details>
   <details>
   <summary label="python">
   Python
   </summary>

      ```python
      def main(event, context):
         span = event.tracer.start_span("foo")
         span.add_event("bar")
         span.end()

         return "hello OpenTelemetry"
      ```

   </details>
   </div>

> 2. [Expose your Function](./svls-03-expose-function.md) and access the Function's external address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Expose your Function](./svls-03-expose-function.md).
```
I guess we do not need to rest of the sentence as everything is described under the link.

3. [Expose Jaeger securely](../../04-operation-guides/security/sec-06-access-expose-kiali-grafana.md) and open the following Jaeger's address in your browser:

   ```text
   http://localhost:16686
   ```

>    > **NOTE:** by default, only 1% of the requests are sent to Jaeger for trace recording. To increase this number see [Jaeger doesn't show the traces you want to see](../../04-operation-guides/troubleshooting/obsv-02-troubleshoot-jaeger-shows-few-traces.md) article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > **NOTE:** By default, only 1% of the requests are sent to Jaeger for the trace recording. To increase this number see the [Jaeger doesn't show the traces you want to see](../../04-operation-guides/troubleshooting/obsv-02-troubleshoot-jaeger-shows-few-traces.md) page.
```

> 4. Find and select the Deployment's name in the `Service` list and click `Find Traces`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Choose your Deployment's name from the **Service** list and click **Find Traces**
```

---
title: Use the OpenTelemetry runtime client
---

> This tutorial shows how to use the build-in OpenTelemetry client to send trace data to the Jaeger service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to use the build-in OpenTelemetry client to send custom trace data to the Jaeger service.
```

> Function runtimes are configured to handle traced requests, propagate right headers to the function contexts, and automatically decorate outgoing requests by right headers. The [event](../../05-technical-reference/svls-08-function-specification.md#event-object) object contains necessary tools with allow to pass additional information about trace by creating custom [spans](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#span) and adding data to them like events. This tutorial shows how to do this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kyma Functions are instrumented to handle trace headers. That means every time your function is called, the executed logic is traceable via dedicated span visible in the Jeager service  ( i.e start time and duration ). 
Additionally, you can extend the default trace context and create our own custom spans whenever you feel it's helpful (i.e when calling a remote service in your distributed application ) or add additional information to the tracing context by introducing events and tags. This tutorial shows how to do it via tracer client that is available as part of   [event](../../05-technical-reference/svls-08-function-specification.md#event-object) object.
```
